- [Instructor] The final topic for this course
is all about creating your own Spring Boot starter,
and really doing so is a multi-step process.
Now, once you've executed it once or twice,
it becomes almost like second nature.
And you actually find yourself
wanting to create more starters
once you realize the power within them,
especially when dealing with cross-cutting concerns
across an organization.
So the first thing you might ask
is why you would want to create your own starter?
And often the answer boils down
to the same reasons that we would implement aspects
in traditional Java applications.
And that has to do with those cross-cutting concerns.
So of course, we'll have some set of common code.
We'll also have some sort of common configuration
which tends to be the default configuration for that code.
By creating this as a Spring Boot starter
for that code as well as the configuration,
we can improve the ease of use.
And by improving the ease of use,
we will see its utilization
increasing across the enterprise.
And that's really what we often want to drive,
is everybody using our library
to execute one function or multiple functions
in the exact same way across all of our applications,
especially in a microservices based architecture.
So the first thing that we need to do
is we need to have a library itself.
Now, when we create a starter project, we're often doing so
because of a business or technical need.
So a need such as logging, or auditing
that has some implication across the entire system.
And we would need to implement that
in each and every one of our projects,
or maybe just a subset of them.
But when we implement them,
we're often doing it in the exact same way,
and then we're configuring it in the exact same way.
So you start off by creating a library
that solves that business or technical need.
Now, part of the key here
is to make sure that you've isolated your code enough
based on its function.
And then you build the library for that function.
You don't want to put too much in one basket either.
So if you've got 20 different business needs,
you may need 20 different libraries,
or you may need a subset of those
based on how often they're used together
or how similar they are.
Really it comes down to knowing your business
and knowing what the domains are
that you've created the code for
helps you to find what size library you need to create.
Now, I want to give you a little bit
of a word of caution here,
and that is to consider your dependencies wisely.
Every dependency that you bring into your project
will then get brought into every project
that consumes your library.
I often like to keep my dependencies as small as possible
when building Spring Boot starters,
and I try to use common componentry wherever I can
so that I don't impact what other people are doing
by simply bringing in the starter.
Because if I decide to use some crazy XML library,
I may break other standard XML parsing
because (indistinct) or something to that effect.
Now once you've written your library,
you're then going to go build an auto configuration module.
Now this can be an optional build,
you actually include your auto-configuration
and your starter in the same project if you choose to.
And that's what Spring Boot auto-configure starter does,
is it brings both of them in at the same time.
So you can include it in the starter
or you can make it isolated, it's totally up to you.
One thing to note is that it should not be included
in your library.
Your library should be able to be used
with or without Spring Boot as it is.
But your auto-configuration module
should include your library as a dependency,
so you don't have to bring both of them in
via your dependency management system.
Now you're going to create all of your configuration
and all of the configuration properties
that you need for this auto-configuration module.
And finally, you're going to contain
all of your spring.factories files in the META-INF directory
that points to your auto-configuration,
and that's how Spring Boot is going to load them.
Now, the final step is once you have your module done,
you're then ready to build the actual starter.
And really traditionally, the starter module
is nothing more than an empty jar file.
It has a dependency on the auto-configuration module
and the library and any other dependency that you may need,
which can include other starter files.
If you go through a lot of what the spring starters have,
they include other starters as well.
And we saw that, for instance, with web starter
because it brought in the Tomcat starter
as well as the logging starter.
So it's really a common pattern for a starter
to include other starter projects.
Now we're not going to go into detail of building one of these,
I just wanted you to know that this is available
and if you find yourself in a situation
where you want to create your own Spring Boot starter,
I encourage you to read the Spring doc
because it's very well written around this topic.